## Keywords
PROM - Programmable Read only Memory
EPROM - Erasable Programmable Read only Memory
PLA - Programmable Logic Array
PAL - Programmable Array Logic
CPLD - Complex Programmable Logic Device
ASIC - Application Specific Integrated Circuit(Single user specific)
GPIC - General Purpose Integrated Circuit(Standard Logic ICs, FPLDs, Full Custom)
FPGA - Field Programmable Gate Array
ASSP - Application Specific Standard Product(Multiple user specific)


* A `field-programmable gate array` (FPGA) is `an integrated circuit` designed to be `configured` by a customer or a designer `after manufacturing` – hence the term "field-programmable". [wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-programmable_gate_array)

* The FPGA configuration is generally specified using a `hardware description language` (HDL), similar to that used for an application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC).[wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-programmable_gate_array)

# Programmable Logic Devices (PLD)

## Programmable Array Logic (PALs)

* Any logic equation can be realized in a two-level `sum of product` format. This is the key concept for PLDs.
* PAL has one fixed logic(OR/AND) plane(set of gates) and one programmable logic(AND/OR) plane. If AND plane is fixed then OR plane is programmable and vice versa.
* `OR fixed` and `AND programmable` configuration is more efficient than the other.
* *Any arbitrary logic function can be implemented in the `disjunctive normal form`.*
* Notation used to illustrate PAL architecture: Depend on the mark on the cross of two paths.
1. Dot : Hard wired
2. Cross : Programmable Link
3. None : Not Connected

## Complex Programmable Logic Devices (CPLDs)

* `CPLDs`- are devices with `multiple PALs` organized into several structures called `macrocells` in the same IC(Integrated Circuit) package.
* Input pins are available for each macrocell which has a dedicated output pin, and any output pin can be driven by any macrocell.
* CPLDs were also built in CMOS to be `reprogrammable` and the program that defined the interconnections in CPLDs is stored in an on-chip EEPROM.
* In contrast to PALs CPLDs top level architecture has `registered outputs` and an `interconnecting programmable fabric`[Refer](https://www.altera.com/solutions/technology/system-design/articles/_2013/in-thebeginning.tablet.html f)a matrix of interconnecting wires that connects the `n` number of macrocells together, feeding the output of the cells to the inputs of other cells. But the number of wires increases as  `n squared` and therefore cost rises exponentially.
* As a solution for those problems CPLDs made of bigger groups of circuits called LAB’s were introduced. A LAB is an Logic Array Block, made of 16 Macrocells with local routing between the macrocells. The Programmable Interconnect Array, or PIA is the routing network between LABs, so CPLDS are inherently hierarchical devices.
* The architecture of the CPLD allowed for easy design of wide input combinational logic functions, like address decoders and state machines with `deterministic timing` but were not effectively scalable for designs with large number of flip-flops which tends to the development of FPGAs.

## Field Programmable Gate Array (FPGA)
[Reference](https://www.altera.com/products/fpga/new-to-fpgas/resourcecenter/learn.tablet.html)

FPGAs consist of only 3 elements:
1. Routing wires
2. Logic gates
3. Register, or flip-flops.

The chip is made of an array of gates and flipflops with wires that can connect them together in patterns. These patterns create the logic for larger functions, like counters, timers, state machines, ALUs, and even whole CPUs. Creating the interconnecting pattern is the heart of FPGA design.

## System on a chip or system on chip (SoC or SOC)
* An integrated circuit (IC) that integrates all components of a computer or other electronic system into a single chip. In other words an IC consists of multiple types of electronic components(GPUs, Communication interfaces,..) along with a Central Processing Unit(CPU)
* If it includes programmable logic, then it is a `Programmable SoC`, or `SoC FPGA`.







REFERENCE https://www.coursera.org/learn/intro-fpga-design-embedded-systems
